# Image-Processing-with-a-CNN
This study utilized partial dataset (1000 cat images and 1000 dog images) of the [2013 Kaggle Dogs vs. Cats competition](https://www.kaggle.com/c/dogs-vs-cats). to examin how the three factors may impact a convolutional neural network (CNN) performance: (1) image color; (2) image size; and (3) pooling-layer type. Each factor has two levels: image color (gray: channel=1/color: channel=3), image size (64x64/128x128), and pooling-layer (max_pooling/average_pooling). Thus, this benchmark experiment was conducted with a 2x3 factorial design.**

Keras from tensorflow was used to construct two CNN models: (1) CNN_max consistes of 1 convolutional layer (32, 5x5 + 1(S)), 1 max-pooling layer(2x2 + 2), 1 fully-connected layer(100 neurons, ReLu) followed by dropout rate = 0.4, and 1 output layer (2 neurons corresponding to the 2 classes); (2) CNN_avg consists of 1 convolutional layer (32, 5x5 + 1(S)), 1 avg-pooling layer(2x2 + 2), 1 fully-connected layer(100 neurons, ReLu) with dropout rate = 0.4, and 1 output layer (2 neurons corresponding to the 2 classes). Each of the four (4) data sets was devided into train/development/test sets in 60/20/20 ratio. Each model was trained on the train set and validated on the development set before it's deployed to evaluate the test set.**

The results from our eight (8) experiments show that**: 
1. When larger images (128x128) are used for model training and development, the accuracy of the model is mostly higher than that when smaller images (64x64) are utilized.
2. When images in color (channel=3) are used for model training and development, the model consistently outperforms that built with gray images (channel=1), no matter of the image size or the type of pooling-layer.
3. Max_pooling method is recommended.
    
While it is evident that it takes much longer time to train and develop the CNN model if larger colorful image (128x128, channel=3) are used, the mangement's primary concern is achieving the highest possible accuracy in image classification. Therefore, it is recommended to utilize higher-resolution images (128x128) in RGB color (channel=3) for training and development of CNN model with max_pooling layer designed within , at the cost of runtime.**
